So are you ready to add music and sound effects to our game?
I hope you are, because we're going to do it anyway.
So I've already added, along with the rest of the files, three sound files.
One is background, underscore music dot MP three and another one is Punch MP three, which is the one
we'll hear when killing an enemy.
And the other one is shot at MP three, which will sound when we shoot.
So these files were downloaded from the Internet, from free websites.
So once we have these three files in our folder, we'll do something quite simple.
First, we have to import something from pi game.
So from pi.
Game.
Import mixer.
Mixer is a tool that allows us to work with sounds.
So let's add the background music.
We'll write add music and call mixer, dot, music, load.
And here we have to write the file name.
In my case, it's background underscore music in order to play it.
We just use mixer music play and that should be enough.
However, it is background music, so it should play on loop.
To do so, we'll put minus one in brackets.
Minus one means it will play again once it ends.
So let's execute it to test it.
And here you have it.
It's sort of mysterious, but I think it's also a bit loud.
So if we want to turn it down, we can just put before play mixer, dot music, dot set volume.
And here we enter a number from 0 to 1.
Let's put 0.5, which is the half of what I entered before.
Well, it hasn't changed much, so let's try 0.3.
So we have our music.
Now it's time to add sound effects.
Let's do the shoot sound.
And place it.
After the call to the space event, we'll call Mixer Sound note that the capital S and we upload the
file we want.
In this case it's titled Shot Dot MP three.
Now we store it in a variable so as to invoke it from there.
So Bullet Sound is mixer sound shot MP three Now we execute it through bullet sound play and that's
it.
Let's check if it works.
Let's shoot.
Perfect.
That's a cool effect.
I like it.
So maybe it is a bit loud as well so you can adjust the volume.
Now we need the sound of the bullet hitting the enemy.
So let's look now for the collisions in our code over here.
If there's a collision, we'll make a collision sound, which is equal to Mixer Sound Capital S and
its title, which in this case is Punch MP three and Collision Sound Play so that it's executed.
So now when killing an enemy, we should be able to hear it.
Let's see.
Well, that's an interesting.
Okay, let's continue with our last lesson.
We have to program the end of our game.